4000 Word Essay On COVID-19 And Food Security
COVID19 is probably the biggest and most unfortunate event that has taken place on earth in the last 100 years. Many critics have termed the impacts of this global pandemic deadlier than the Second World War. Many complicated issues and challenges have come up in this scenario along with the downfall of economy. One of the most problematic issues faced by the poorer sections of people was securing their food during the lockdown period in all the countries (Laborde, Martin & Vos, 2020). The situation was going out of hand as the Government ordered all the offices and factories to be shut down to secure the lives of people. This issue of food insecurity loomed large on the poor families as they sought to urge the Governments to make some arrangements for the food security and shelters of these people (Gundersen et al., 2020). This essay writing help will highlight on some of the common perspectives regarding food insecurity during COVID19 lockdown period and its impacts on people in the later stages.

Thesis statement: The negative impacts of COVID19 have ruined the economy and created the challenge for securing the food for the poor people in all sections of the society.

The food insecurity has risen up alarmingly in many parts of the world and it has ruined the lives of many poor people across different sections of the society also. This is the reason most governments in the world are trying to put up their best efforts so they can keep their agriculture running in all forms (Laborde, Martin & Vos, 2020). Otherwise, people of middle income earners will also face this situation in the near future. Agriculture has been taken as the most essential business so the situations should be under control as most critics have argued (Gundersen et al., 2020).

Many steps are being taken by the government and several organizations so they could keep the supply of all sorts of nutritious foods in the market. Doctors and medical experts have confirmed that a proper staple diet will help to keep away the threat of COVID19 from people. This is the reason that supply of all essential commodities must be supplied in full capacity for the benefits of the people (Gundersen et al., 2020). There have been some transportation issues due to the restrictions for movement. Still the supply of these agricultural items must be done with top priority. Otherwise, more people will start to die for the lack of food than being affected by COVID19.

The governments in most countries are trying to make sure that people should always be able to access the food from their nearby markets at affordable prices. The drop of economy has hinted at the rise of prices for food. This impact is mainly identified in the poor countries of Africa and other subsequent poor countries (Huizar, Arena & Laddu, 2020). This is the very reason why the situations must be brought under control by providing subsidy for all these necessary agricultural products. It has been estimated that around 30 to 35% people in the world have lost their jobs due to COVID19. Still, all these people have the right to have food. Therefore, this is the responsibility of the government to ensure this positively.

It must be taken into account during this time that the food trade has been very much stable all over the world more than any industry. Agricultural production has been of top priority for governments and subsequent organizations. They are putting up all their best efforts so they could highlight on the problems that they might face in the future (Huizar, Arena & Laddu, 2020). The government has been trying all their best efforts so they could keep their markets running and producing ample amount of products to keep the process going for everyone. Otherwise, it would become an immense challenge for everyone to deal with the lack of food in the society. The amount of food trade has always been better than all other trades (Paslakis, Dimitropoulos & Katzman, 2020). Still people belonging to the poor regions of the world are facing large troubles in this discourse.

Critics have pointed out that three most important cereals for the people should be produced without any stopping. These three things are rice, wheat and maize. The experts have found out that the production of these three cereals has been at an all-time high. The economic aspects are quite positive since it has matched the prices during January of this year. Overall situations are quite pleasing through different ways (Paslakis, Dimitropoulos & Katzman, 2020). However, it has been pointed out that transport issues are still lingering on the importing countries as international flights have been completely closed. This would definitely create a problem for all the importing countries. In order to ensure the smooth flow of the countries, it has been highlighted that World Bank is trying to collaborate to make sure that global food supply is not hurt at all. Otherwise, it will create a chaos all over the countries in this critical situation (Leddy et al., 2020).

The global responses have been quite positive due to the production and distribution of the cereals and food grains. Critic have identified that the major problem relies at the national level. The crisis of the coronavirus has been spreading in the countries and transportation systems are locked down during this time. However, it must be kept in mind that numerous people are jobless because their factories or shops are closed (Leddy et al., 2020). Therefore, the main responsibility is upon the governments to supply all the food nutrients safely to all the families during this crisis. The food supply chains at the domestic levels are facing some serious troubles and disruptions in many ways.

Tensions are always there for the limited amount of jobs and people are becoming very much desperate for the food. Amidst this condition, it is a great challenge for the governments to make some arrangements through which global food supply chains can remain unhinged and without any disruptions (Ahn & Norwood, 2020). The food prices at the global level are quite stable but the domestic prices are rising and it is becoming very problematic for the people to purchase the food from the retail level. This is one of the greatest challenges to provide ample amount of food to everyone because the countries are going through economic disruptions also. The challenge of currency devaluation is one of the primary challenges as to why people are not being able to buy the food products at an affordable rate.

The rising prices of the food products always have a huge challenge for the low and middle income earning people (Ahn & Norwood, 2020). Poor people have to depend on the NGOs for the distribution of food. Daily wage laborers are often unable to feed their children twice a day and make the ends meet. This is the most probable reason why people are denied of food supply. On the other hand, it should be remembered that the total expenditure on food provision is higher in these low and middle income countries (Pérez‐Escamilla, Cunningham & Moran, 2020).

Higher income countries do not have to go through this issue at a regular level. Especially, countries with richer agricultural and water resources are always able to highlight the differences on different occasions. The retail prices are higher and it is contradicted with the less amount of incomes (Pérez‐Escamilla, Cunningham & Moran, 2020). Therefore, the food chains at the domestic level should be re-evaluated and proper actions should always be taken on this issue. Critics have highlighted the major issue that lack of food will cause challenges for the health and nutrition.

This will make the immunity system of the body weaker. This is how they will grow prone to catch the virus. According to the United Nations World Food program, around 130 million in the world could face the insecurity of food by December of 2020. This is absolutely a frightening scenario for everyone (Adams et al., 2020). This is why the assurance of food security should be given in all geographic and demographic conditions over the world. There are several parts in the world which are very hard to access and people find difficult to earn their food.Ensuring global food security is paramount, especially as weakened immune systems increase vulnerability to viruses. Approximately 130 million people faced food insecurity by December 2020 (Adams et al., 2020). In this context, it is crucial to address challenging geographic areas where people struggle to procure food. For comprehensive insights, one can explore buy online essay to delve deeper into this pressing issue.

One of these areas are desert areas of Afghanistan and some parts of Africa. People of these regions will find it very difficult to earn their livelihood, food and shelter without the help of the government (Adams et al., 2020). Therefore, it is the utmost responsibility of the government to ensure best amount of resources for these people so they can minimum access to food. The World Bank has gone on to make some surveys and they highlighted the food insecurity in poor regions of the world where positive measures must be taken urgently (McLoughlin et al., 2020).

The negative impacts through the widespread of the COVID19 is hampering the distribution of food and social conditions are deteriorating (Glauber et al., 2020). Conflicts between common people for food is increasing every day and it can only be solved through the involvement of different NGOs for the betterment of the situation. One critical perspective has been found out in this discourse. It is regarding the fact that the food producers are at huge losses and it is very hard for them to afford more if the prices are not increased (Loopstra, 2020).

This has become a global phenomenon and dilemma for the governments also. The prices of seeds and fertilizers have gone up also during this crisis times. The inflation of the food prices is a normal output as a result of it (McLoughlin et al., 2020). Organizations working in this industry must think about some creative ideas that will secure the rights of people of all sections in the world. Major supply disruptions are also taking place which should be resolved immediately for procuring the food supply at an immediate level (Headey et al., 2020).

Otherwise, the overall situation cannot be taken under control. The increasing of food security will indeed be a huge challenge for all the people since they cannot afford high priced food items during these critical times. Apart from increasing the supply food and taking people out of food insecurity, some measures should also be taken to re-employ people in their works as they lost their jobs in the COVID19 pandemic (Lane et al., 2020). The shortages of labor is seen as a major reason for the disruption for a long time. Laborers working on daily wages cannot come to the fields because of transportation issues. The conditions of the grassroots farmers are extremely poor. It is so tough for them that they are ready to eat the seeds as their food than keeping it for plantation on the fields next day (Amare et al., 2020).

The states which are largely affected with conflicts and having fragile economy are the victims of this food insecurity problem mostly. Many critics have stressed on their internal conflicts for the contemporary condition. According to data of United Nations, around 690 million poor people are experiencing this food insecurity crisis before the COVID19 pandemic already began (Kinsey, Kinsey & Rundle, 2020). The conditions of all these people are seriously fatal amidst all the current situations. It is high time for the governments to increase their capacities for importing food from other countries during this time (Fitzpatrick, Harris & Drawve, 2020). Then only some positive steps could be taken though the currency devaluation has posed a significant challenge before them.

In the concluding section of the paper, it could be said that the food insecurity and COVID19 are directly interrelated. The conditions are becoming very problematic and this needs to be solved on an urgent basis within the countries. Many countries are finding it very difficult to accommodate all the people with food since the retail prices of food item are increasing. This is basically a countrywide issue and government must always reflect on how this issue can be resolved to provide ample amount of food through proper transportation of food items from other countries. The government and certain organizations should always collaborate on this matter to produce best outcomes.

References
Adams, E. L., Caccavale, L. J., Smith, D., & Bean, M. K. (2020). Food insecurity, the home food environment, and parent feeding practices in the era of COVID‐19. Obesity.

Ahn, S., & Norwood, F. B. (2020). Measuring Food Insecurity during the COVID‐19 Pandemic of Spring 2020. Applied Economic Perspectives and Policy.

Amare, M., Abay, K. A., Tiberti, L., & Chamberlin, J. (2020). Impacts of COVID-19 on food security: Panel data evidence from Nigeria (Vol. 1956). Intl Food Policy Res Inst.

Fitzpatrick, K. M., Harris, C., & Drawve, G. (2020). Assessing Food Insecurity in the United States During COVID-19 Pandemic. Montana, 34, 3.

Glauber, J., Laborde, D., Martin, W., & Vos, R. (2020). COVID-19: Trade restrictions are worst possible response to safeguard food security. Issue Post, March, 27, 2020.

Gundersen, C., Hake, M., Dewey, A., & Engelhard, E. (2020). Food Insecurity during COVID‐19. Applied economic perspectives and policy.

Headey, D. D., Goudet, S., Lambrecht, I., Oo, T. Z., Maffioli, E. M., Field, E., & Toth, R. (2020). Poverty and food insecurity during COVID-19: Evidence from the COVID-19 Rural and Urban Food Security Survey (RUFSS)-June and July 2020 round (Vol. 27). Intl Food Policy Res Inst.

Huizar, M. I., Arena, R., & Laddu, D. R. (2020). The global food syndemic: the impact of food insecurity, malnutrition and obesity on the healthspan amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Progress in cardiovascular diseases.

Kinsey, E. W., Kinsey, D., & Rundle, A. G. (2020). COVID-19 and Food Insecurity: an Uneven Patchwork of Responses. Journal of Urban Health: Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, 1.

Laborde, D., Martin, W., & Vos, R. (2020). Poverty and food insecurity could grow dramatically as COVID-19 spreads. International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington, DC.

Lane, H. G., Turner, L., Dunn, C. G., Hager, E. R., & Fleischhacker, S. (2020). Leveraging Implementation Science in the Public Health Response to COVID-19: Child Food Insecurity and Federal Nutrition Assistance Programs. Public Health Reports, 0033354920959285.

Leddy, A. M., Weiser, S. D., Palar, K., & Seligman, H. (2020). A conceptual model for understanding the rapid COVID-19–related increase in food insecurity and its impact on health and healthcare. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

Loopstra, R. (2020). Vulnerability to food insecurity since the COVID-19 lockdown.

McLoughlin, G. M., McCarthy, J. A., McGuirt, J. T., Singleton, C. R., Dunn, C. G., & Gadhoke, P. (2020). Addressing Food Insecurity through a Health Equity Lens: a Case Study of Large Urban School Districts during the COVID-19 Pandemic. Journal of Urban Health, 1-17.

Paslakis, G., Dimitropoulos, G., & Katzman, D. K. (2020). A call to action to address COVID-19–induced global food insecurity to prevent hunger, malnutrition, and eating pathology. Nutrition reviews.

Pérez‐Escamilla, R., Cunningham, K., & Moran, V. H. (2020). COVID‐19 and maternal and child food and nutrition insecurity: a complex syndemic